The Post operation is used to create a resource.
An API defines operations that can manipulate a resource.
The gut operation retrieves a resource post, creates a resource, put updates a resource and delete
deletes a resource.
In this lesson, your API will define a post operation.
Before we do anything else, go to your pod class.
Make sure to remove your complete constructor because it's just going to mess everything up.
And we're not going to need this anymore.
Because now we're going to be creating objects using a post operation.
So we'll just set this equal to a new.
ArrayList.
All right.
Because what we want ultimately is for Spring Boot to use the empty constructor and auto generate an
ID for each object that gets created.
We're not going to have those IDs of one, two, three, four, five, six and whatever.
All right.
The next step is, you guessed it, we expect the consumer to send a post request.
So what we can do is use the post mapping annotation to map this request to a handler method.
So we expect them to make a post request on slash contact.
They're obviously going to be sending over payload along with their request.
And what we're going to send back upon creating the contact object is we're just going to send back
an HTTP status.
We're not going to carry any data back to the consumer.
So in this case, when we want it to carry back data as well as the status, you have to specify the
type of data you would send back.
In this case, we're just sending back a status and we're going to call the handler method, create
contact, and it expects to receive a contact from the consumer.
Okay.
Let's not do anything for now inside the interface.
What we will do is force the implementation to override a save function.
So we're going to say void.
Save contact.
And it's going to expect a contact.
And now back inside of my implementation, I can just override the following method.
Here, we'll say.
Contact.
Repository, dot.
Save contact.
And back here I can say contact service dot save whatever contact gets passed in as payload inside of
the post request.
All right.
And now we'll go back here and have a look at the 200 status codes.
Which one do you think we should send back?
Obviously.
201201 means, hey, we got your request.
It was successful, and a new resource was created as a result.
Now, usually you'd want to send back the resource that was created as confirmation.
But in this case, we're not going to be doing that just because it would add a lot of unnecessary work.
Eventually, we'll be using an actual database, not an array list, and that's when we'll do that.
But I'm very, very certain that the object will get created and there won't be any issues with the
array list.
All right, so here I can just return.
And a new response entity that encapsulates an HTTP status.
Of created status code 201.
What I'm going to do is actually run my application in debug mode.
I'll close this console.
All right, let's try it out.
We'll go back here or sorry.
We'll go back here and we'll make a post request.
To slash contact and we need to pass in some payload.
So right here, we're going to define some JSON.
Let's just copy over the format.
Make sure to specify that we're sending over JSON to our API.
All right.
And the only fields that we're going to include in the JSON payload are the name and the phone number.
The ID is going to be automatically generated inside of the empty constructor that we have in our class.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and send it over.
All right if I press next and expand this.
Hmm.
Spring Boot is not able to serialize the contents of the request body onto our object.
There's actually one last step, and before I explain this step, remember how I told you that the response
body annotation that's contained within the rest controller serialize is the object that's returned
into JSON before it's sent back.
Well, postman, when it sends us data, it's not actually going to send us a Java object as would be
suggested here.
It's sending us a JSON data packet and our application isn't going to magically know what to do with
the JSON.
And so what we need to do is d serialize that JSON into a Java object.
And so what we need to do is include the request body annotation.
So a DC realizes the contents of the request body into a java object.
So if we send that same request.
You can see that thanks to request body, Spring Boot was effectively able to serialize the contents
of the JSON into a Java object.
So actually if we're going to look at this line by line, let's include breakpoints in all the setters.
Uh.
Let's just step through this.
Make another request.
Send it.
So first spring boot creates a new object of the contact class.
It creates a new object using your empty constructor.
The ID field is auto generated over here.
And every single setter that spring boot calls matches a field value from the JSON.
So the name field matches the set name setter of our object and its corresponding value is going to
get passed in accordingly.
The phone number field matches the set phone number setter of our Java object.
So just like that, the contents of our request body are serialized into a Java object.
Here.
We're saving that object inside of our repository.
And the API should send back a status code of 201, which means we got the request and it was successful,
but it took too long.
So as it says, the socket hung up.
Let's just send it again.
Boom, boom, boom.
Sends back a status code of 201.
Now, this is very nice because on one hand we have an annotation called Response Body, which is part
of your rest controller, and it's able to serialize the object that we're responding with into JSON.
And we also have a request body which DC realizes the contents of incoming JSON into a Java object.
And just like that, we created an API that's capable of communicating with another system.
So to recap, the post operation creates a resource.
This only leaves to operations put and delete.
So let's get to it.